//

## Introduction to Linux
 
-> Linux is a Unix like OS developed by Linus Torvalds and thousands of opensource contributors
-> redhat  is companey to distrubution companey by Luinx
-> Linux is an Operating system. It is reliable and secure than others; Also it is completely opensource

-> Linux is everywhere!
    Linux is in your smartphones. 85% of all smartphones are based on Linux.
    Your car uses Linux; Especially self driving cars
    Even your refrigerators need Linux to run

->   is secure and realable so it is faster
->  Top 500 supercomputers run on Linux!

Why use Linux?
windows
• For a Windows server, you need to purchase the license and the expenditure increases according to the number of users
• Not many customization options available
• Windows is vulnerable to viruses and malware threats. A powerful anti virus software is a need
Linux 
• With Linux, license is free, installing software's is free and you can install Linux in any number of machines you want
• There are a lot of Linux distributions and you can choose one from it
• More secure than Windows and viruses can’t easily break the kernel

Linux Distributions
debian
fedora
ubuntu
centOS Nowadays, we use a lot of GUI based Linux distributions like CentOS. In these you have a terminal to contact the shell
RadHat Enterprixe Linux
SUSE


Linux Architecture
1. hardware
2. Kerel 
3. shell ,pwd, ls,grep, cp 
4. Applications , DBMS, Utilites, mail
5. User


Kernel is commucate the hardWare
shell interface the kernel and user

shell 
A Shell interprets the commands you have entered using a keyboard and sends it to the OS to perform them
       
                                           Shell sending the
                                             commands to OS 
   KeyBoard is unput to the shell                                          kernel
                                          OS is sending it back
                                              to the Shell  


Top Shells in Linux
  bash
  Zsh
  fish 


  command 
    pwd 


Basics of Kernel
    A Linux Kernel is a UNIX like OS kernel. It is a Computer Program which is the core interface which connects the Hardware components to the Software processes

Top operations performed by a Kernel 
 1. Resource Management Decides which process gets a resource for an operation
2. Memory management Kernel has complete access to system memory and must efficiently manage it and allow memory access to processes
3. Device management If we connect devices such as a printer or a pen drive, kernel detects it and helps the system establish connection with those peripherals
4. System calls This is an interface between a process and the operating system. When the process does not have permissions to access a resource, a system callprovides it without the process accessing the resource directly



